DOC-1664 & DOC-1802 (#2282)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start.md

]
---

To deploy Redis Enterprise Software for Kubernetes, and get your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) up and running, you'll need to do the following:

- Create a new namespace in your Kubernetes cluster.
- Download the operator bundle.

> - Apply the operator bundle and verify it's running
> - Create a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Apply the operator bundle and verify it's running.
- Create a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC).
```

* a Kubernetes client (kubectl)
* access to DockerHub, RedHat Container Catalog, or a private repository that can hold the required images.

### Create a new namespace

> **Important:** Each namespace can only contain one Redis Enterprise cluster. Multiple RECs with different operator versions can co-exist on the same Kubernetes cluster, as long as they are in separate namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** Each namespace can only contain one Redis Enterprise cluster. Multiple RECs with different operator versions can coexist on the same Kubernetes cluster, as long as they are in separate namespaces.
```

Throughout this guide, each command is applied to the namespace in which the Redis Enterprise cluster operates.

1. Create a new namespace

    ```sh
    kubectl create namespace <rec-namespace>
    ```

2. Change the namespace context to make the newly created namespace default for future commands.

    ```sh
    kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=<rec-namespace>
    ```

You can use an existing namespace as long as it does not contain any existing Redis Enterprise cluster resources. It's best practice to create a new namespace to make sure there are no Redis Enterprise resources that could interfere with the deployment.

## Install the operator

> The Redis Enterprise operator bundle is published as a Docker container. A list of required images is available in the [release notes]({{<relref "/kubernetes/release-notes/_index.md">}}) for each version.

Reviewer 2: Container technology has long been standardized beyond Docker which is now just another company in the container space. The correct term to use is **container image**.

```suggestion
The Redis Enterprise operator bundle is published as a container image. A list of required images is available in the [release notes]({{<relref "/kubernetes/release-notes/_index.md">}}) for each version.
```

The operator [definition and reference materials](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs) are available on GitHub. The operator definitions are [packaged as a single generic YAML file](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/master/bundle.yaml).

{{<note>}}

> If you do not pull images from DockerHub or another public registry, you'll need to use a [private container registry]({{<relref "/kubernetes/deployment/container-images#manage-image-sources">}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not pull images from DockerHub or another public registry, you need to use a [private container registry]({{<relref "/kubernetes/deployment/container-images#manage-image-sources">}}).
```

{{</note>}}

### Download the operator bundle

Pull the latest version of the operator bundle:

```sh
VERSION=`curl --silent https://api.github.com/repos/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/releases/latest | grep tag_name | awk -F'"' '{print $4}'`
```

  If you need a different release, replace `VERSION` with a specific release tag.

>   Check versions tags listed with the [operator releases on GitHub](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/releases) or by [using the GitHub API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/repos#releases) to ensure the version of the bundle is correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Check version tags listed with the [operator releases on GitHub](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/releases) or by [using the GitHub API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/repos#releases) to ensure the version of the bundle is correct.
```

## Create a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC)

> A Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) is created by with a  `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource

Reviewer: Maybe "from"?
```suggestion
A Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) is created from a `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource
```

> that contains cluster's specifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that contains cluster specifications.
```
or
```suggestion
that contains the cluster's specifications.
```

The following example creates a minimal Redis Enterprise cluster. See the [RedisEnterpriseCluster API reference](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/master/redis_enterprise_cluster_api.md) for more information on the various options available.

1. Create a file (`my-rec.yaml`) that defines a Redis Enterprise cluster with three nodes:

    ```sh

>     cat <<EOF > <my-rec.yaml>

Author: ```suggestion
    cat <<EOF > my-rec.yaml
```

>     cat <<EOF > <my-rec.yaml>

Reviewer 2: Maybe omit the `<>` around `my-rec.yaml`? I think it's pretty obvious that this is an example filename, and it would also reduce confusion with the other `<`'s and `>`'s actually needed in this command.

    apiVersion: "app.redislabs.com/v1"
    kind: "RedisEnterpriseCluster"
    metadata:

>       name: "<my-rec>"

Author: ```suggestion
      name: my-rec
```

>       name: "<my-rec>"

Reviewer 2: The quotes are harmless but atypical - better to remove.

Reviewer 2: Also here, can remove the `<>`.

    EOF
    ```

You should see your request was denied by the `admission webhook "redb.admission.redislabs"`.

```sh
Error from server: error when creating "STDIN": admission webhook "redb.admission.redislabs" denied the request: eviction_policy: u'illegal' is not one of [u'volatile-lru', u'volatile-ttl', u'volatile-random', u'allkeys-lru', u'allkeys-random', u'noeviction', u'volatile-lfu', u'allkeys-lfu']
```

## Create a Redis Enterprise Database (REDB)

> You can create multiple databases within the same namespace as your REC, or in other namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create multiple databases within the same namespace as your REC or in other namespaces.
```
